Adding object references security considerations (#5808)
kubernetes/community: contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md

Controllers should be authored with the assumption that the referenced resource may not exist, and include
error handling to make the issue clear to the user.

### Validation of fields

Many of the values used in an object reference are used as part of the API path. For example,
the object name is used in the path to identify the object. Unsanitized, these values can be used to
attempt to retrieve other resources, such as by using values with semantic meanings such as  `..` or `/`.

> Have the controller validate the field before using it as a reference, and emit an event to
> tell the user that the validation has failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have the controller validate fields before using them as path segments in an API request, and emit an event to
tell the user that the validation has failed.
```

> See [Object Names and IDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names/#dns-subdomain-names)

Reviewer: link to the overall name topic which describes three common types of name validation:
```suggestion
See [Object Names and IDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names/)
```

for more information on legal object names.

### Do not modify the referred object

> To minimize potential privilege escalation vectors, do not modify the object that is being referred to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To minimize potential privilege escalation vectors, do not modify the object that is being referred to,
or limit modification to objects in the same namespace and constrain the type of modification allowed
(for example, the HorizontalPodAutoscaler controller only writes to the `/scale` subresource).
```

### Minimize copying or printing values to the referrer object

As the permissions of the controller can differ from the permissions of the author of the object
the controller is managing, it is possible that the author of the object may not have permissions to
view the referred object. As a result, the copying of any values about the referred object to the
referrer object can be considered permissions escalations, enabling a user to read values that they
would not have access to previously.

The same scenario applies to writing information about the referred object to events.

> In general, do not write or print information about the referred object to the spec, other objects, or logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, do not write or print information retrieved from the referred object to the spec, other objects, or logs.
```
